protocol.md, before:

# Client/Server Communication Protocol

The protocol is relatively simple, and contains 4 options:

Any message sent to the SaWa Server starts with:

- A 4-bytes unsigned integer which tells how long is the message (excluding the present integer)
- A 1-byte command

The integers are all unsigned 32-bits, stored with the machine's default Endian (so little Endian on Linux x64)

## Info

This allows to know how many sectors does the filesystem contain. The message is always 5 bytes long.

- Query: [0x01 00 00 00] [0x01]
- Response: [4-bytes message size]

## Read

Asks to get [size] bytes of data starting at [offset]. The query message is always 13 bytes (hence a size of 0x09 00 00 00).

- Query: [0x09 00 00 00] [0x02] [4-bytes message offset] [4-bytes message size]
- Response: either a one-byte error code, or the data

The reason for the response is so that the Block Driver can copy the response directly to the buffer provided by the operating system.

## Write

Asks to write a certain number of bytes of data starting at [offset]. The number of bytes to write is derived from the message size.

- Query: [4-bytes message size] [0x03] [4-bytes message offset] [data to write]
- Response: one-byte response

## Stop

This instructs the SaWa Server to shut down. This command is useful when the server is in daemon mode.

- Request: [0x01 00 00 00] [0x04]
- Response: n/a

Commit message:

Created a separate port and thread to process admin commands

protocol.md, after:

# Client/Server Communication Protocol

The protocol is relatively simple, and contains 4 options:

Any message sent to the SaWa Server starts with:

- A 4-bytes unsigned integer which tells how long is the message (excluding the present integer)
- A 1-byte command

The integers are all unsigned 32-bits, stored with the machine's default Endian (so little Endian on Linux x64)

## Info

This allows to know how many sectors does the filesystem contain. The message is always 5 bytes long.

- Query: [0x01 00 00 00] [0x01]
- Response: [4-bytes message size]

## Read

Asks to get [size] bytes of data starting at [offset]. The query message is always 13 bytes (hence a size of 0x09 00 00 00).

- Query: [0x09 00 00 00] [0x02] [4-bytes message offset] [4-bytes message size]
- Response: either a one-byte error code, or the data

The reason for the response is so that the Block Driver can copy the response directly to the buffer provided by the operating system.

## Write

Asks to write a certain number of bytes of data starting at [offset]. The number of bytes to write is derived from the message size.

- Query: [4-bytes message size] [0x03] [4-bytes message offset] [data to write]
- Response: one-byte response

## Stop

This instructs the Server to shut down. This command needs to be sent to port 5001 (which is open whether the server is in SaWa or HTTP mode). This command is useful when the server started as a daemon.

- Request: [0x01 00 00 00] [0x04]
- Response: n/a
