README.md, before:

# SaWa (Samba Wannabe)

SaWa is networking filesystem on Linux. It is composed of two pieces:

- A file server running in userspace which is accessible through TCP port 5000 (port 5001 for administrative commands)
- A block driver, which acts as the client and talks to the server through TCP/IP

## The file server

The fileserver listens to port 5000, uses a flat file for the filesystem and accepts four commands:

- Info, which returns the number of sectors
- Read, which reads a certain number of bytes
- Write, which writes some data at a certain offset
- Stop, which stops the server

    $ ./server/sawad [-debug]
    Server started on port 5000
    
To test the fileserver, `sawa-client` is also provided:

    $ ./server/sawa-client info
    $ ./server/sawa-client write 10 100
    $ ./server/sawa-client read 10 100
    $ ./server/sawa-client test 3
    $ ./server/sawa-client stop
    $ ./server/sawa-client stat

## The device driver

The device driver is a Linux block driver which connects to the file server using TCP/IP (currently only on localhost) when it needs to access the data. See [here](./block_driver.md) for further information about how the device driver works.

You must be logged as root to install and test it:

- `make`
- `make test`: installs the driver
- `fdisk /dev/sawa0`: creates a partition
    - Enter `n` (to create a new partition), select all default options
    - Enter `w` to commit the changes
- `mkfs /dev/sawa0`: formats the filesystem
- `mount /dev/sawa0 /mnt`: mounts the filesystem

After this the filesystem is available, e.g.

    # cd /mnt/
    # echo "Hello World" > hello.txt
    # cat hello.txt

To uninstall the driver:

- `umount /mnt`: unmounts the filesystem
- `make end`: uninstalls the driver

## Web Server

`sawad` is designed to handle multiple connections (using different threads). In order to test how well `sawad` handles workload, it has an `-http` option which turns it into a rudimentary Web server, so it can be tested by tools such as `ab`.

    ./server/sawad -http
    ./server/sawad -http -debug

## Architecture

- [Block Driver architecture](./block_driver.md)
- [SaWa Server architecture](./server.md)
- [The client/server TCP protocol](./protocol.md)

Commit message:

A barely working ToWa (Tomcat Wannabe)

README.md, after:

# SaWa (Samba Wannabe)

SaWa is networking filesystem on Linux. It is composed of two pieces:

- A file server running in userspace which is accessible through TCP port 5000 (port 5001 for administrative commands)
- A block driver, which acts as the client and talks to the server through TCP/IP

## The file server

The fileserver listens to port 5000, uses a flat file for the filesystem and accepts four commands:

- Info, which returns the number of sectors
- Read, which reads a certain number of bytes
- Write, which writes some data at a certain offset
- Stop, which stops the server

    $ ./server/sawad [-debug]
    Server started on port 5000
    
To test the fileserver, `sawa-client` is also provided:

    $ ./server/sawa-client info
    $ ./server/sawa-client write 10 100
    $ ./server/sawa-client read 10 100
    $ ./server/sawa-client test 3
    $ ./server/sawa-client stop
    $ ./server/sawa-client stat

## The device driver

The device driver is a Linux block driver which connects to the file server using TCP/IP (currently only on localhost) when it needs to access the data. See [here](./block_driver.md) for further information about how the device driver works.

You must be logged as root to install and test it:

- `make`
- `make test`: installs the driver
- `fdisk /dev/sawa0`: creates a partition
    - Enter `n` (to create a new partition), select all default options
    - Enter `w` to commit the changes
- `mkfs /dev/sawa0`: formats the filesystem
- `mount /dev/sawa0 /mnt`: mounts the filesystem

After this the filesystem is available, e.g.

    # cd /mnt/
    # echo "Hello World" > hello.txt
    # cat hello.txt

To uninstall the driver:

- `umount /mnt`: unmounts the filesystem
- `make end`: uninstalls the driver

## ApWa (Apache Wannabe)

`sawad` is designed to handle multiple connections (using different threads). In order to test how well `sawad` handles workload, it has an `-http` option which turns it into a rudimentary Web server, so it can be tested by tools such as `ab`.

    ./server/sawad -http
    ./server/sawad -http -debug

## ToWa (Tomcat Wannabe - in construction)

On top of being a Web Server, ApWa can also be the frontend for the ToWa Application Server, servicing Java servlets.

This module is in construction. It requires several things:

- To run `towa` from the `classpath` folder
- To uncompress `servlet_api.jar` in the `classpath` folder
- To start `sawad -http -towa`

## Architecture

- [Block Driver architecture](./block_driver.md)
- [SaWa Server architecture](./server.md)
- [The client/server TCP protocol](./protocol.md)
