server.md, before:

# SaWa Server Architecture

The SaWa Server is designed with performance it mind, and uses two he best performance possible. It is using two mechanisms for this:

- A thread pool: each new TCP connection is handled by a separate thread. The server keeps a pool of idle threads and reuses them whenever possible.
- Caching (HTTP server only): Web pages which are read from the disk are kept in memory

The workflow is as follows:

- `sawad.c` / `sawa_server_start()`: the server listens to any new connection, and calls `handle_new_connection()` for any new connection.
- `thread_pool.c` / `handle_new_connection()`: this function's role is to find a thread to process the request. Either reuse an existing thread (`reuse_thread()`) or create a new thread (`new_thread()`)
- `thread_pool.c` / `reuse_thread()`: this function looks at an existing thread in the idle queue (`idle_threads`). If it finds one it awaks it by calling `pthread_kill(thread_info->thread, SIGUSR1)`
- `thread_pool.c` / `new_thread()`: creates a new thread, calling `connection_handler()` in that thread.
- `thread_pool.c` / `connection_handler()`: this function handles the new socket. It keeps calling `op_listen()` until the connection is closed. Once it is, the thread is moved to the unassigned queue and goes to sleep.
- `op_listen` is a function pointer which can either point to `sawa_srv.c` / `sawa_listen()` or `http_srv.c` / `http_listen()`, depending on whether the server is configured to run as a SaWa or HTTP server.
- Both functions process the SaWa or HTTP request and perform the appropriate action.

## The Thread Pool

The thread pool is composed of a FILA (First In, Last Out) queue `idle_threads`. It contains a linked list of `struct connection_thread` objects, each object containing information about the thread (id, socket id, thread statistics). Any modification of that queue must first acquire the `idle_threads_lock` mutex.

I toyed with the idea of having a FIFO queue where the oldest idle thread gets picked up first. This would allow to have two independent mutex - one to add a thread to the queue and one to remove a thread from the queue. This would allow to add a thread to the idle queue while another thread is being removed from it. The problem is when the idle queue contains one or less threads. In order not to mess the status of the linked list, any thread would need to hold both mutexes, which undermines the whole concept of two independent locks.

The upside of a FILA queue is that it requires only one mutex (`idle_threads_lock`), and adding/removing a `struct connection_thread` to the queue is fairly quick.

## Display

The server has three different types of display:

- Default (`sawad`): thread statistics are displayed in the screen using NCurses. No debug information except errors.
- Debug (`sawad -debug`): the degug information is printed to the stdio.
- Daemon (`sawad -daemon`): errors are stored in sawa.log. Debug information is stored there as well if started with the `-debug` flag.

The `screen` object points to a `struct display` which contains the appropriate methods.

## Improvements

- SaWa server cache: the server could keep a copy of the pages ready from the disk in memory, avoiding duplicate disk reads. The cache needs to be updated if a write operation is requested. It is however not clear how much performance would be gained considering Linux already has a filesystem cache. Likewise, a write cache (where the server acknowledges immediately a write operation but performs it later) is feasible but can be dangerous.
- The ability to use the "stop" command when the server is running in HTTP server mode
- A branch "thread_on_demand" was created to test an architecture without a thread pool, i.e. threads are created for any new connection and destroyed when it is closed. The performance is very close to the version from the master branch using a thread pool. This is because, even though Linux does not really have threads (these are processes that share the parent's address space), these are spawn creally quickly.

Commit message:

Created a separate port and thread to process admin commands

server.md, after:

# SaWa Server Architecture

The SaWa Server is designed with performance it mind, and uses two he best performance possible. It is using two mechanisms for this:

- A thread pool: each new TCP connection is handled by a separate thread. The server keeps a pool of idle threads and reuses them whenever possible.
- Caching (HTTP server only): Web pages which are read from the disk are kept in memory

The workflow is as follows:

- `sawad.c` / `sawa_server_start()`: the server listens to any new connection, and calls `handle_new_connection()` for any new connection.
- `thread_pool.c` / `handle_new_connection()`: this function's role is to find a thread to process the request. Either reuse an existing thread (`reuse_thread()`) or create a new thread (`new_thread()`)
- `thread_pool.c` / `reuse_thread()`: this function looks at an existing thread in the idle queue (`idle_threads`). If it finds one it awaks it by calling `pthread_kill(thread_info->thread, SIGUSR1)`
- `thread_pool.c` / `new_thread()`: creates a new thread, calling `connection_handler()` in that thread.
- `thread_pool.c` / `connection_handler()`: this function handles the new socket. It keeps calling `op_listen()` until the connection is closed. Once it is, the thread is moved to the unassigned queue and goes to sleep.
- `op_listen` is a function pointer which can either point to `sawa_srv.c` / `sawa_listen()` or `http_srv.c` / `http_listen()`, depending on whether the server is configured to run as a SaWa or HTTP server.
- Both functions process the SaWa or HTTP request and perform the appropriate action.

## The Thread Pool

The thread pool is composed of a FILA (First In, Last Out) queue `idle_threads`. It contains a linked list of `struct connection_thread` objects, each object containing information about the thread (id, socket id, thread statistics). Any modification of that queue must first acquire the `idle_threads_lock` mutex.

I toyed with the idea of having a FIFO queue where the oldest idle thread gets picked up first. This would allow to have two independent mutex - one to add a thread to the queue and one to remove a thread from the queue. This would allow to add a thread to the idle queue while another thread is being removed from it. The problem is when the idle queue contains one or less threads. In order not to mess the status of the linked list, any thread would need to hold both mutexes, which undermines the whole concept of two independent locks.

The upside of a FILA queue is that it requires only one mutex (`idle_threads_lock`), and adding/removing a `struct connection_thread` to the queue is fairly quick.

## Display

The server has three different types of display:

- Default (`sawad`): thread statistics are displayed in the screen using NCurses. No debug information except errors.
- Debug (`sawad -debug`): the degug information is printed to the stdio.
- Daemon (`sawad -daemon`): errors are stored in sawa.log. Debug information is stored there as well if started with the `-debug` flag.

The `screen` object points to a `struct display` which contains the appropriate methods.

## Administrative interface

Whether the server is started as a SaWa or an HTTP server, it also opens TCP port 5001 to process incoming administrative commands (right now only the "stop" commands, but more to follow). A dedicated thread is handling these commands.

## Improvements

- SaWa server cache: the server could keep a copy of the pages ready from the disk in memory, avoiding duplicate disk reads. The cache needs to be updated if a write operation is requested. It is however not clear how much performance would be gained considering Linux already has a filesystem cache. Likewise, a write cache (where the server acknowledges immediately a write operation but performs it later) is feasible but can be dangerous.
- A branch "thread_on_demand" was created to test an architecture without a thread pool, i.e. threads are created for any new connection and destroyed when it is closed. The performance is very close to the version from the master branch using a thread pool. This is because, even though Linux does not really have threads (these are processes that share the parent's address space), these are spawn creally quickly.
